docs/rules/idiomatic/custom-has-key-construct.md, before:

# custom-has-key-construct

**Summary**: Custom function may be replaced by `in` and `object.keys`

**Category**: Idiomatic

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

import future.keywords.if

mfa if has_key(input.claims, "mfa")

has_key(map, key) if {
    _ = map[key]
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

import future.keywords.if
import future.keywords.in

allow if "admin" in input.user.roles
```

## Rationale

The `in` keyword was introduced in OPA version X.XX. Prior to that, it was a common practice to create a custom helper
function that would iterate over values of an array in order to check if it contained a provided value. Since the
introduction of the `in` keyword, this is no longer necessary. The `in` keyword additionally supports sets and maps as
the collection type, so using it consistently is recommended.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules: 
  idiomatic:
    custom-in-construct:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

Commit message:

Fix docs in custom-has-key-construct (#203)
Also minor fix in custom-in-construct, adding proper version.

Fixes #202

Signed-off-by: Anders Eknert <anders@styra.com>

docs/rules/idiomatic/custom-has-key-construct.md, after:

# custom-has-key-construct

**Summary**: Custom function may be replaced by `in` and `object.keys`

**Category**: Idiomatic

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

import future.keywords.if

mfa if has_key(input.claims, "mfa")

has_key(map, key) if {
    _ = map[key]
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

import future.keywords.if
import future.keywords.in

mfa if "mfa" in object.keys(input.claims)
```

## Rationale

Checking if a key exists in an object (regardless of the attribute's value) used to be done using custom functions. With
the introduction of the [object.keys](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-reference/#builtin-object-objectkeys)
(OPA [v0.47.0](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa/releases/tag/v0.47.0)) function, this is no longer necessary,
and using the built-in function together with `in` should be preferred.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules: 
  idiomatic:
    custom-in-construct:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```
