docs/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head.md, before:

# prefer-value-in-head

**Summary**: Prefer value in rule head

**Category**: Custom

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := val if {
    is_number(input.pin_code)
    val := to_number(input.pin_code)
}

deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := to_number(input.pin_code) if is_number(input.pin_code)

deny contains "user attribute missing from input" if not input.user
```

## Rationale

Rules that return the value assigned in the last expression of the rule body may have the value, or the function
returning the value, moved directly to the rule head. This creates more succinct rules, and often allows for rules to be
expressed as "one-liners". This is not a general recommendation, but a style preference that a team or organization
might want to standardize on. As such, it is placed in the custom category, and must be explicitly enabled in
configuration.

The `only-scalars` configuration option may be used to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans,
null) to the head, and not expressions or functions returning a value. With this option set to `true`, the following
example would be flagged:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value is a scalar
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

But not:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value returned from a function call, not suggested if `only-scalars` is set to `true`
    message := sprintf("user attribute missing from input: %v", [input])
}
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  custom:
    prefer-value-in-head:
      # note that all rules in the "custom" category are disabled by default
      # (i.e. level "ignore")
      #
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # whether to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)
      # to the head, and not expressions or functions
      only-scalars: false
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head/prefer_value_in_head.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

Enable prefer-values-in-head
Although with `only-scalars` set to `true`. I did review the violations
reported without that, and while most didn't warrant "fixing", a a few
did, and so I did.

Also added an option to the rule to be able to list variable names that
should be excluded.

It's fun to play around, but the high-level goal here is mostly to have
`regal lint bundle` run all rules, even if with some exceptions defined
in the config.

Signed-off-by: Anders Eknert <anders@styra.com>

docs/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head.md, after:

# prefer-value-in-head

**Summary**: Prefer value in rule head

**Category**: Custom

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := val if {
    is_number(input.pin_code)
    val := to_number(input.pin_code)
}

deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := to_number(input.pin_code) if is_number(input.pin_code)

deny contains "user attribute missing from input" if not input.user
```

## Rationale

Rules that return the value assigned in the last expression of the rule body may have the value, or the function
returning the value, moved directly to the rule head. This creates more succinct rules, and often allows for rules to be
expressed as "one-liners". This is not a general recommendation, but a style preference that a team or organization
might want to standardize on. As such, it is placed in the custom category, and must be explicitly enabled in
configuration.

The `only-scalars` configuration option may be used to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans,
null) to the head, and not expressions or functions returning a value. With this option set to `true`, the following
example would be flagged:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value is a scalar
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

But not:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value returned from a function call, not suggested if `only-scalars` is set to `true`
    message := sprintf("user attribute missing from input: %v", [input])
}
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  custom:
    prefer-value-in-head:
      # note that all rules in the "custom" category are disabled by default
      # (i.e. level "ignore")
      #
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # whether to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)
      # to the head, and not expressions or functions
      only-scalars: false
      # variable names to exempt from the rule (by default, none)
      except-var-names:
        - report
        - violation
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head/prefer_value_in_head.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
