docs/rules/bugs/duplicate-rule.md, before:

# duplicate-rule

**Summary**: Duplicate rule

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if user.is_admin

allow if user.is_developer

# we already covered this!
allow if user.is_admin
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if user.is_admin

allow if user.is_developer
```

## Rationale

Duplicated rules are likely a mistake, perhaps from pasting contents from another file.

This rule identifies rules that are _identical_ in terms of their name, assigned value, and body — excluding
whitespace. In technical terms, if two or more rules share the same abstract syntax tree, they are considered
to be duplicates.

## Exceptions

Note that this rule currently works at the scope of a single file. If you're using the same package across multiple
files, there could still be duplicates across those files. This will be addressed in a future version of this rule.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    duplicate-rule:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/duplicate-rule/duplicate_rule.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/bugs/duplicate-rule.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/bugs/duplicate-rule](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/bugs/duplicate-rule) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# duplicate-rule

**Summary**: Duplicate rule

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if user.is_admin

allow if user.is_developer

# we already covered this!
allow if user.is_admin
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if user.is_admin

allow if user.is_developer
```

## Rationale

Duplicated rules are likely a mistake, perhaps from pasting contents from another file.

This rule identifies rules that are _identical_ in terms of their name, assigned value, and body — excluding
whitespace. In technical terms, if two or more rules share the same abstract syntax tree, they are considered
to be duplicates.

## Exceptions

Note that this rule currently works at the scope of a single file. If you're using the same package across multiple
files, there could still be duplicates across those files. This will be addressed in a future version of this rule.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    duplicate-rule:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/duplicate-rule/duplicate_rule.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
