docs/rules/bugs/if-object-literal.md, before:

# if-object-literal

**Summary**: Object literal following `if`

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

# {} interpreted as object, not a rule body
allow if {}

allow if {
    # perhaps meant to be comparison?
    # but this too is an object
    input.x: 10
}
```

## Rationale

An object literal immediately following an `if` is almost certainly a mistake, and the intention was likely to express
a rule body in its place. This isn't too common, but can happen when either an empty object `{}` is all that follows the
`if`, or an expression in the "body" mistakenly is written as a `key: value` pair.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    if-object-literal:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/if-object-literal/if_object_literal.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/bugs/if-object-literal.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/bugs/if-object-literal](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/bugs/if-object-literal) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# if-object-literal

**Summary**: Object literal following `if`

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

# {} interpreted as object, not a rule body
allow if {}

allow if {
    # perhaps meant to be comparison?
    # but this too is an object
    input.x: 10
}
```

## Rationale

An object literal immediately following an `if` is almost certainly a mistake, and the intention was likely to express
a rule body in its place. This isn't too common, but can happen when either an empty object `{}` is all that follows the
`if`, or an expression in the "body" mistakenly is written as a `key: value` pair.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    if-object-literal:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/if-object-literal/if_object_literal.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
