docs/rules/bugs/rule-named-if.md, before:

# rule-named-if

**Summary**: Rule named `if`

**Category**: Bugs

## Notice: Rule made obsolete by OPA 1.0

Since Regal v0.30.0, this rule is only enabled for projects that have either been explicitly configured to target
versions of OPA before 1.0, or if no configuration is provided — where Regal is able to determine that an older version
of OPA/Rego is being targeted. Consult the documentation on Regal's
[configuration](https://docs.styra.com/regal#configuration) for information on how to best work with older versions of
OPA and Rego.

Since OPA v1.0, this rule is automatically disabled, as the parser itself will throw an error if a rule is named `if`,
as that is made a keyword in Rego v1.0.

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow := true if {
    authorized
}
```

Which actually means:

```rego
package policy

allow := true

if {
    authorized
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

import rego.v1

allow := true if {
    authorized
}
```

## Rationale

Forgetting to import the `if` keyword (using `import future.keywords.if`, or from OPA v0.59.0+ `import rego.v1`) is a
common mistake. While this often results in a parse error, there are some situations where the parser can't tell if the
`if` is intended to be used as the imported keyword, or a new rule named `if`. This is almost always a mistake, and if
it isn't — consider using a better name for your rule!

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    rule-named-if:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/rule-named-if/rule_named_if.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/bugs/rule-named-if.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/bugs/rule-named-if](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/bugs/rule-named-if) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# rule-named-if

**Summary**: Rule named `if`

**Category**: Bugs

## Notice: Rule made obsolete by OPA 1.0

Since Regal v0.30.0, this rule is only enabled for projects that have either been explicitly configured to target
versions of OPA before 1.0, or if no configuration is provided — where Regal is able to determine that an older version
of OPA/Rego is being targeted. Consult the documentation on Regal's
[configuration](https://docs.styra.com/regal#configuration) for information on how to best work with older versions of
OPA and Rego.

Since OPA v1.0, this rule is automatically disabled, as the parser itself will throw an error if a rule is named `if`,
as that is made a keyword in Rego v1.0.

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow := true if {
    authorized
}
```

Which actually means:

```rego
package policy

allow := true

if {
    authorized
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

import rego.v1

allow := true if {
    authorized
}
```

## Rationale

Forgetting to import the `if` keyword (using `import future.keywords.if`, or from OPA v0.59.0+ `import rego.v1`) is a
common mistake. While this often results in a parse error, there are some situations where the parser can't tell if the
`if` is intended to be used as the imported keyword, or a new rule named `if`. This is almost always a mistake, and if
it isn't — consider using a better name for your rule!

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    rule-named-if:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/rule-named-if/rule_named_if.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
