docs/rules/bugs/top-level-iteration.md, before:

# top-level-iteration

**Summary**: Iteration in top-level assignment

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

user := input.users[_]
```

## Rationale

While OPA allows this construct — it probably shouldn't. Performing iteration outside of a rule or function body
doesn't make any sense, and traversing **any** collection containing more than one item in this context will result
in an error:

```shell
eval_conflict_error: complete rules must not produce multiple outputs
```

If the collection only contains a single item, the assignment will succeed, and the result will be the single element
assigned to the variable. As such, it is possible that a policy passing all tests still will fail when provided real
data.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    top-level-iteration:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/top-level-iteration/top_level_iteration.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/bugs/top-level-iteration.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/bugs/top-level-iteration](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/bugs/top-level-iteration) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# top-level-iteration

**Summary**: Iteration in top-level assignment

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

user := input.users[_]
```

## Rationale

While OPA allows this construct — it probably shouldn't. Performing iteration outside of a rule or function body
doesn't make any sense, and traversing **any** collection containing more than one item in this context will result
in an error:

```shell
eval_conflict_error: complete rules must not produce multiple outputs
```

If the collection only contains a single item, the assignment will succeed, and the result will be the single element
assigned to the variable. As such, it is possible that a policy passing all tests still will fail when provided real
data.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    top-level-iteration:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/top-level-iteration/top_level_iteration.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
