docs/rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value.md, before:

# unassigned-return-value

**Summary**: Non-boolean return value unassigned

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    # return value not assigned
    lower(input.user.name)
    # ...
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    # return value assigned
    name_lower := lower(input.user.name)
    # ...
}
```

## Rationale

Calling a built-in function that returns a non-boolean value without actually assigning the returned value is almost
always a mistake. Only return of `false` or undefined will cause evaluation to halt, so a function that e.g. always
returns a string will always be evaluated as "truthy". But more importantly — not handling the return value in that case
is almost certainly a mistake.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    unassigned-return-value:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value/unassigned_return_value.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# unassigned-return-value

**Summary**: Non-boolean return value unassigned

**Category**: Bugs

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    # return value not assigned
    lower(input.user.name)
    # ...
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    # return value assigned
    name_lower := lower(input.user.name)
    # ...
}
```

## Rationale

Calling a built-in function that returns a non-boolean value without actually assigning the returned value is almost
always a mistake. Only return of `false` or undefined will cause evaluation to halt, so a function that e.g. always
returns a string will always be evaluated as "truthy". But more importantly — not handling the return value in that case
is almost certainly a mistake.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  bugs:
    unassigned-return-value:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/bugs/unassigned-return-value/unassigned_return_value.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
