docs/adopters.md, before:

# Adopters

We're happy to be trusted by the following projects and organizations.

If you're using Regal, please consider opening a pull request to add your project or organization to this list!

## Open Source Projects

Public open source projects integrating Regal for linting in their CI/CD pipelines.

- [Brainiac](https://github.com/carbonetes/brainiac)
- [Cloudbeat](https://github.com/elastic/cloudbeat)
- [Conftest](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/conftest)
- [CVAT](https://github.com/opencv/cvat)
- [GKE Policy Automation](https://github.com/google/gke-policy-automation)
- [Konstraint](https://github.com/plexsystems/konstraint)
- [Kubescape](https://github.com/kubescape/regolibrary)
- [Legitify](https://github.com/Legit-Labs/legitify)
- [Minder](https://github.com/stacklok/minder)
- [Modernisation Platform](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/modernisation-platform)
- [OPA Library](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/library)
- [Red Hat COP](https://github.com/redhat-cop/rego-policies)
- [ScubaGear](https://github.com/cisagov/ScubaGear)
- [Spacelift Policy Library](https://github.com/spacelift-io/spacelift-policies-example-library)

## Integrations

Projects and products that integrate Regal into their offerings.

- [Dependency Management Data](https://gitlab.com/tanna.dev/dependency-management-data)
- [Enterprise OPA](https://github.com/styrainc/enterprise-opa)
- [The Rego Playground](https://play.openpolicyagent.org)

## Companies and Organizations

Companies and organizations using Regal (not counting organizations behind the open source projects listed above).

- [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com)
- [Bankdata](https://www.bankdata.dk)
- [Miro](https://miro.com)
- [Stacklok](https://stacklok.com)
- [Styra](https://www.styra.com)

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal adoption or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!

Commit message:

Add asdf instructions
And some links to package managers including Regal in the adopters file

Signed-off-by: Anders Eknert <anders@styra.com>

docs/adopters.md, after:

# Adopters

We're happy to be trusted by the following projects and organizations.

If you're using Regal, please consider opening a pull request to add your project or organization to this list!

## Open Source Projects

Public open source projects integrating Regal for linting in their CI/CD pipelines.

- [Brainiac](https://github.com/carbonetes/brainiac)
- [Cloudbeat](https://github.com/elastic/cloudbeat)
- [Conftest](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/conftest)
- [CVAT](https://github.com/opencv/cvat)
- [GKE Policy Automation](https://github.com/google/gke-policy-automation)
- [Konstraint](https://github.com/plexsystems/konstraint)
- [Kubescape](https://github.com/kubescape/regolibrary)
- [Legitify](https://github.com/Legit-Labs/legitify)
- [Minder](https://github.com/stacklok/minder)
- [Modernisation Platform](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/modernisation-platform)
- [OPA Library](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/library)
- [Red Hat COP](https://github.com/redhat-cop/rego-policies)
- [ScubaGear](https://github.com/cisagov/ScubaGear)
- [Spacelift Policy Library](https://github.com/spacelift-io/spacelift-policies-example-library)

## Integrations

Projects and products that integrate Regal into their offerings.

- [Dependency Management Data](https://gitlab.com/tanna.dev/dependency-management-data)
- [Enterprise OPA](https://github.com/styrainc/enterprise-opa)
- [The Rego Playground](https://play.openpolicyagent.org)

## Packaging

The following package managers include Regal in their repositories, either natively or via plugins.

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) via Styra's [homebrew-packages](https://github.com/StyraInc/homebrew-packages)
- [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) via [asdf-regal](https://github.com/asdf-community/asdf-regal)
- [pkgsrc](https://www.pkgsrc.se/) and the [regal](https://pkgsrc.se/devel/regal) package

## Companies and Organizations

Companies and organizations using Regal (not counting organizations behind the open source projects listed above).

- [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com)
- [Bankdata](https://www.bankdata.dk)
- [Miro](https://miro.com)
- [Stacklok](https://stacklok.com)
- [Styra](https://www.styra.com)

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal adoption or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!
