docs/cicd.md, before:

# Using Regal in your build pipeline

Its possible to use Regal to lint your Rego policies in your CI/CD pipeline(s)!

This document will guide you on how to do so.

## GitHub Actions

If you'd like to run Regal in GitHub actions, please consider using [`setup-regal`](https://github.com/StyraInc/setup-regal).
A simple `.github/workflows/lint.yml` to run regal on PRs could look like this, where `policy` contains Rego files:

```yaml
name: Regal Lint
on:
  pull_request:
jobs:
  lint-rego:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v4
    - uses: StyraInc/setup-regal@v1
      with:
        # For production workflows, use a specific version, like v0.22.0
        version: latest

    - name: Lint
      run: regal lint --format=github ./policy
```

Please see [`setup-regal`](https://github.com/StyraInc/setup-regal) for more information.

## GitLab CI/CD

To use Regal in GitLab CI/CD, you could for example use the following stage in your `.gitlab-ci.yml`:

```yaml
regal_lint_policies:
  stage: regal-lint
  image:
    # For production workflows, use a specific version, like v0.22.0
    name: ghcr.io/styrainc/regal:latest
    entrypoint: ['/bin/sh', '-c']
  script:
    - regal lint ./policy --format junit > regal-results.xml
  artifacts:
    reports:
      junit: regal-results.xml
    when: always
  rules:
    - if: '$CI_PIPELINE_SOURCE == "merge_request_event"'
```

The above will run Regal on the `policy` directory when a merge request is created or updated and will show linting
violations as part of the merge request.

Commit message:

docs: Update config cli docs (#1584)
* docs: Update cli and config documentation

Place them in own sections not in readme.

https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/issues/1558#issuecomment-2944119526

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

* docs: Add community footers

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

* docs: add more to the next steps

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

* docs: Correct yaml format

And update readme

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

* docs: Add community footers to new pages

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/cicd.md, after:

# Using Regal in your build pipeline

Its possible to use Regal to lint your Rego policies in your CI/CD pipeline(s)!

This document will guide you on how to do so. Please also review the
[CLI](./cli) documentation for more information on the available options.

## GitHub Actions

If you'd like to run Regal in GitHub actions, please consider using [`setup-regal`](https://github.com/StyraInc/setup-regal).
A simple `.github/workflows/lint.yml` to run regal on PRs could look like this, where `policy` contains Rego files:

```yaml
name: Regal Lint
on:
  pull_request:
jobs:
  lint-rego:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v4
    - uses: StyraInc/setup-regal@v1
      with:
        # For production workflows, use a specific version, like v0.22.0
        version: latest

    - name: Lint
      run: regal lint --format=github ./policy
```

Please see [`setup-regal`](https://github.com/StyraInc/setup-regal) for more information.

## GitLab CI/CD

To use Regal in GitLab CI/CD, you could for example use the following stage in your `.gitlab-ci.yml`:

```yaml
regal_lint_policies:
  stage: regal-lint
  image:
    # For production workflows, use a specific version, like v0.22.0
    name: ghcr.io/styrainc/regal:latest
    entrypoint: ['/bin/sh', '-c']
  script:
    - regal lint ./policy --format junit > regal-results.xml
  artifacts:
    reports:
      junit: regal-results.xml
    when: always
  rules:
    - if: '$CI_PIPELINE_SOURCE == "merge_request_event"'
```

The above will run Regal on the `policy` directory when a merge request is created or updated and will show linting
violations as part of the merge request.

## Community

For questions, discussions and announcements related to Styra products, services and open source projects, please join
the Styra community on [Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
