docs/development.md, before:

# Development

If you'd like to contribute to Regal, here are some pointers to help get you started. 

Before you start, the [architecture](./architecture) guide provides a useful overview of how Regal works, so you might
want to read that before diving into the code!

## Contributing New Rules

If you'd like to contribute a new built-in rule, the simplest way to get started is to run the `regal new rule` command.
This should be done from the top-level directory of the Regal repository, and would look something like this:

```shell
regal new rule --type builtin --category naming --name foo-bar-baz
```

This will create two files in `bundle/regal/rules/naming` (since `naming` was the category) — one for the rule and one
for testing it. The code here will be a pretty simple template, but contains all the required components for a built-in
rule. A good idea for learning more about what's needed is to take a look at some previous PRs adding new rules to
Regal.

## Building

Build the `regal` executable simply by running `go build`.

Occasionally you may want to run the `fetch_builtin_data.sh` script from inside the `build` directory. This will
populate the `data` directory with any data necessary for linting (such as the built-in function metadata from OPA).

## Testing

To run all the Rego unit tests, you can run the `regal test` command targeting the `bundle` directory:

```shell
regal test bundle
```

To run all tests — Go and Rego:

```shell
go test ./...
```

### E2E tests

End-to-End (E2E) tests assert the behaviour of the `regal` binary called with certain configs, and test files.
They expect a `regal` binary either in the top-level directory, or pointed at by `$REGAL_BIN`, and can be run
locally via

```shell
go test -tags e2e ./e2e
```

## Linting

Regal uses [golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/) with most linters enabled. In order to check your code, run:

```shell
golangci-lint run ./...
```

In order to please the [gci](https://github.com/daixiang0/gci) linter, you may either manually order imports, or have
them automatically ordered and grouped by the tool:

```shell
gci write \
  -s standard \
  -s default \
  -s "prefix(github.com/open-policy-agent/opa)" \
  -s "prefix(github.com/styrainc/regal)" \
  -s blank \
  -s dot .
```
## Documentation

The table in the [Rules](../README.md#rules) section of the README is generated with the following command:

```shell
go run main.go table --write-to-readme bundle
```

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal development or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!

Commit message:

Rule: chained-rule-body (#295)
While `opa-fmt` fixes this, this is peculiar enough that the
rule docs alone make for an informative source to point at.

Also some minor improvements here and there:
* Fix other rules that would report false positives when
  chained rules bodies were present
* Remove a trailing quote in the builtin test template used
  by `rego new rule`
* Add some guiding principles for new rules in development.md

Fixes #292

Signed-off-by: Anders Eknert <anders@styra.com>

docs/development.md, after:

# Development

If you'd like to contribute to Regal, here are some pointers to help get you started. 

Before you start, the [architecture](./architecture) guide provides a useful overview of how Regal works, so you might
want to read that before diving into the code!

## Contributing New Rules

If you'd like to contribute a new built-in rule, the simplest way to get started is to run the `regal new rule` command.
This should be done from the top-level directory of the Regal repository, and would look something like this:

```shell
regal new rule --type builtin --category naming --name foo-bar-baz
```

This will create two files in `bundle/regal/rules/naming` (since `naming` was the category) — one for the rule and one
for testing it. The code here will be a pretty simple template, but contains all the required components for a built-in
rule. A good idea for learning more about what's needed is to take a look at some previous PRs adding new rules to
Regal.

### Guiding principles for new built-in rules

- All rules should have succinct, descriptive names which are unique - even across categories
- A rule that misses a few cases is better than no rule at all, but it's good to document any known edge cases 
- False positives should however always be avoided
- Add tests for as many cases as you can think of
- Any new rule should have an example violation added in `e2e/testada/violations/most_violations.rego`
- All the steps for building, testing and linting in this document should pass

If you're struggling with any of the above points, or you're unsure of what to do, no worries! Just say so in your PR,
or ask for advice in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!

## Building

Build the `regal` executable simply by running `go build`.

Occasionally you may want to run the `fetch_builtin_data.sh` script from inside the `build` directory. This will
populate the `data` directory with any data necessary for linting (such as the built-in function metadata from OPA).

## Testing

To run all the Rego unit tests, you can run the `regal test` command targeting the `bundle` directory:

```shell
regal test bundle
```

To run all tests — Go and Rego:

```shell
go test ./...
```

### E2E tests

End-to-End (E2E) tests assert the behaviour of the `regal` binary called with certain configs, and test files.
They expect a `regal` binary either in the top-level directory, or pointed at by `$REGAL_BIN`, and can be run
locally via

```shell
go test -tags e2e ./e2e
```

## Linting

Regal uses [golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/) with most linters enabled. In order to check your code, run:

```shell
golangci-lint run ./...
```

In order to please the [gci](https://github.com/daixiang0/gci) linter, you may either manually order imports, or have
them automatically ordered and grouped by the tool:

```shell
gci write \
  -s standard \
  -s default \
  -s "prefix(github.com/open-policy-agent/opa)" \
  -s "prefix(github.com/styrainc/regal)" \
  -s blank \
  -s dot .
```
## Documentation

The table in the [Rules](../README.md#rules) section of the README is generated with the following command:

```shell
go run main.go table --write-to-readme bundle
```

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal development or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!
