docs/integration.md, before:

# Integration

If you'd like to integrate Regal into a Go application, this guide contains some pointers.


## Using Regal from Go

Regal can be used from a Go application by importing the `linter` package:

```go
import "github.com/styrainc/regal/pkg/linter"
```

### Input

Input to `Lint` can be provided in a number of ways:

* Using the `InputFromPaths` helper to load Rego files from the filesystem,
* Using the `InputFromText` helper to parse a single Rego module from a string,

#### Using `InputFromPaths`

```go
paths := []string{"foo.rego", "bar.rego"}

input, err := rules.InputFromPaths(paths)
if err != nil {
    // handle error
}
```

#### Using `InputFromText`

```go

regoText := `package foo...`

input, err := rules.InputFromText("policy.rego", regoText)
if err != nil {
	// handle error
}
```

### Linting

To get a Regal report back for the provided input, create a Regal instance and call `Lint`:

```go
regalInstance := linter.NewLinter().WithInputModules(&input)

lintingReport, err := regalInstance.Lint(r.Context())
if err != nil {
    response.ErrorMessage = err.Error()
    writeJSON(w, http.StatusOK, response)
    return
}
```

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal development or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!

Commit message:

Add note about prod use of Go API
Fixes https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/issues/248

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/integration.md, after:

# Integration

:warning: Using Regal from Go is currently experimental and subject to change. Please swing by
[Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup) if you're keen to use Regal in a production system.

If you'd like to integrate Regal into a Go application, this guide contains some pointers.

## Using Regal from Go

Regal can be used from a Go application by importing the `linter` package:

```go
import "github.com/styrainc/regal/pkg/linter"
```

### Input

Input to `Lint` can be provided in a number of ways:

* Using the `InputFromPaths` helper to load Rego files from the filesystem,
* Using the `InputFromText` helper to parse a single Rego module from a string,

#### Using `InputFromPaths`

```go
paths := []string{"foo.rego", "bar.rego"}

input, err := rules.InputFromPaths(paths)
if err != nil {
    // handle error
}
```

#### Using `InputFromText`

```go

regoText := `package foo...`

input, err := rules.InputFromText("policy.rego", regoText)
if err != nil {
	// handle error
}
```

### Linting

To get a Regal report back for the provided input, create a Regal instance and call `Lint`:

```go
regalInstance := linter.NewLinter().WithInputModules(&input)

lintingReport, err := regalInstance.Lint(r.Context())
if err != nil {
    response.ErrorMessage = err.Error()
    writeJSON(w, http.StatusOK, response)
    return
}
```

## Community

If you'd like to discuss Regal development or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!
