docs/pre-commit-hooks.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Pre-Commit Hooks

[Pre-Commit](https://pre-commit.com) is a framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
This allows running Regal automatically whenever (and as the name implied, before )a Rego file is about to be committed.

To use Regal with pre-commit, add this to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml`

```yaml
- repo: https://github.com/StyraInc/regal
  rev: v0.7.0 # Use the ref you want to point at
  hooks:
    - id: regal-lint
  # -   id: ...
```

## Hooks Available

### `regal-lint`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- requires the `go` build chain is installed and available on `$PATH`
- will build and install the tagged version of Regal in an isolated `GOPATH`
- ensures compatibility between versions

### `regal-lint-use-path`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- requires the `regal` package is already installed and available on `$PATH`.

### `regal-download`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- Downloads the latest `regal` binary from Github.

## Community

If you'd like to discuss the Regal pre-commit hooks, or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/pre-commit-hooks.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [pre-commit-hooks](https://docs.styra.com/regal/pre-commit-hooks) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Pre-Commit Hooks

[Pre-Commit](https://pre-commit.com) is a framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
This allows running Regal automatically whenever (and as the name implied, before )a Rego file is about to be committed.

To use Regal with pre-commit, add this to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml`

```yaml
- repo: https://github.com/StyraInc/regal
  rev: v0.7.0 # Use the ref you want to point at
  hooks:
    - id: regal-lint
  # -   id: ...
```

## Hooks Available

### `regal-lint`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- requires the `go` build chain is installed and available on `$PATH`
- will build and install the tagged version of Regal in an isolated `GOPATH`
- ensures compatibility between versions

### `regal-lint-use-path`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- requires the `regal` package is already installed and available on `$PATH`.

### `regal-download`

![commit-msg hook](https://img.shields.io/badge/hook-pre--commit-informational?logo=git)

Runs Regal against all staged `.rego` files, aborting the commit if any fail.

- Downloads the latest `regal` binary from Github.

## Community

If you'd like to discuss the Regal pre-commit hooks, or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal`
channel in the Styra Community [Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
