docs/rules/style/default-over-not.md, before:

# default-over-not

**Summary**: Prefer default assignment over negated condition

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

username := input.user.name

username := "anonymous" if not input.user.name
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

default username := "anonymous"

username := input.user.name
```

## Rationale

While both forms are valid, using the `default` keyword to assign a constant value in the fallback case better
communicates intent, avoids negation where it isn't needed, and requires less instructions to evaluate. Note that this
rule only covers simple cases where one rule assigns the "happy" path, and another rule assigns on the same condition
negated. This is by design, as using `not` and negation may very well be the right choice for more complex cases!

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    default-over-not:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- OPA Docs: [Default Keyword](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/policy-language/#default-keyword)
- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/default-over-not/default_over_not.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/style/default-over-not.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/style/default-over-not](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/style/default-over-not) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# default-over-not

**Summary**: Prefer default assignment over negated condition

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

username := input.user.name

username := "anonymous" if not input.user.name
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

default username := "anonymous"

username := input.user.name
```

## Rationale

While both forms are valid, using the `default` keyword to assign a constant value in the fallback case better
communicates intent, avoids negation where it isn't needed, and requires less instructions to evaluate. Note that this
rule only covers simple cases where one rule assigns the "happy" path, and another rule assigns on the same condition
negated. This is by design, as using `not` and negation may very well be the right choice for more complex cases!

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    default-over-not:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- OPA Docs: [Default Keyword](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/policy-language/#default-keyword)
- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/default-over-not/default_over_not.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
