docs/rules/style/function-arg-return.md, before:

# function-arg-return

**Summary**: Return value assigned in function argument

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

has_email(user) if {
    indexof(user.email, "@", i)
    i != -1
}
```

**Prefer**

```rego
package policy

has_email(user) if {
    i := indexof(user.email, "@")
    i != -1
}
```

## Rationale

Older Rego policies sometimes contain an unusual way to declare where the return value of a function call should be
stored — the last argument of the function. True to its Datalog roots, return values may be stored either using
assignment (i.e. `:=`) or by appending a variable name to the argument list of a function. While both forms are valid,
using assignment `:=` consistently is preferred.

## Exceptions

The `walk` built-in function is a special one, as it's the only one producing a *relation*. Therefore, it is okay to
treat it as one even in style, and:

```rego
walk(object, [path, value])
```

is arguably more idiomatic than:

```rego
[path, value] := walk(object)
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    function-arg-return:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # list of function names to ignore
      # * by default, walk is excepted from this rule
      # * note that `print` is always ignored as it does not return a value
      except-functions:
        - walk
```

## Related Resources

- Rego Style Guide: [Avoid using the last argument for the return value](https://github.com/StyraInc/rego-style-guide#avoid-using-the-last-argument-for-the-return-value)
- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/function-arg-return/function_arg_return.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/style/function-arg-return.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/style/function-arg-return](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/style/function-arg-return) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# function-arg-return

**Summary**: Return value assigned in function argument

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

has_email(user) if {
    indexof(user.email, "@", i)
    i != -1
}
```

**Prefer**

```rego
package policy

has_email(user) if {
    i := indexof(user.email, "@")
    i != -1
}
```

## Rationale

Older Rego policies sometimes contain an unusual way to declare where the return value of a function call should be
stored — the last argument of the function. True to its Datalog roots, return values may be stored either using
assignment (i.e. `:=`) or by appending a variable name to the argument list of a function. While both forms are valid,
using assignment `:=` consistently is preferred.

## Exceptions

The `walk` built-in function is a special one, as it's the only one producing a *relation*. Therefore, it is okay to
treat it as one even in style, and:

```rego
walk(object, [path, value])
```

is arguably more idiomatic than:

```rego
[path, value] := walk(object)
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    function-arg-return:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # list of function names to ignore
      # * by default, walk is excepted from this rule
      # * note that `print` is always ignored as it does not return a value
      except-functions:
        - walk
```

## Related Resources

- Rego Style Guide: [Avoid using the last argument for the return value](https://github.com/StyraInc/rego-style-guide#avoid-using-the-last-argument-for-the-return-value)
- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/function-arg-return/function_arg_return.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
