docs/rules/style/opa-fmt.md, before:

# opa-fmt

**Summary**: File should be formatted with `opa fmt`

**Category**: Style

**Automatically fixable**: [Yes](/regal/fixing)

**Avoid**

Inconsistent style across policy files and repositories.

## Rationale

The `opa fmt` tool ensures consistent formatting across teams and projects. Unified formatting is a big win, and saves a
lot of time in code reviews arguing over details around style.

A good idea could be to run `opa fmt --write` on save, which can be configured in most editors.

**Tip**: `opa fmt` uses tabs for indentation. By default, GitHub uses 8 spaces to display tabs, which is arguably a bit
much. You can change this preference for your account in `github.com/settings/appearance`, or provide an `.editorconfig`
file in your policy repository, which will be used by GitHub (and other tools) to properly display your Rego files:

```ini
[*.rego]
end_of_line = lf
insert_final_newline = true
charset = utf-8
indent_style = tab
indent_size = 4
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    opa-fmt:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- OPA Docs: [CLI Reference `opa fmt`](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/cli/#opa-fmt)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!

Commit message:

docs: opa-fmt v1/v0 notes (#1336)
This explains the different behaviour of `opa fmt` between v0 and v1
when working with v0/v1 files in Rego.

Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/style/opa-fmt.md, after:

# opa-fmt

**Summary**: File should be formatted with `opa fmt`

**Category**: Style

**Automatically fixable**: [Yes](/regal/fixing)

**Avoid**

Inconsistent style across policy files and repositories.

## Rationale

The `opa fmt` tool ensures consistent formatting across teams and projects. Unified formatting is a big win, and saves a
lot of time in code reviews arguing over details around style.

A good idea could be to run `opa fmt --write` on save, which can be configured in most editors.

**Tip**: `opa fmt` uses tabs for indentation. By default, GitHub uses 8 spaces to display tabs, which is arguably a bit
much. You can change this preference for your account in `github.com/settings/appearance`, or provide an `.editorconfig`
file in your policy repository, which will be used by GitHub (and other tools) to properly display your Rego files:

```ini
[*.rego]
end_of_line = lf
insert_final_newline = true
charset = utf-8
indent_style = tab
indent_size = 4
```

## OPA Format with Rego v1 and v0

OPA 1.0 makes Rego v1 the default. This change mandated some changes to the
functionality of the `opa fmt` command and a number of new options for working
with mixed version code bases. See the
[OPA documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/cli/#opa-fmt)
for the command's options.

In Regal, a v0 file will have the `opa-fmt` violation unless it's been formatted
with `opa fmt --v0-v1`. A v1 file will have the `opa-fmt` violation unless it's
been formatted with `opa fmt` (the rego.v1 keyword is permitted but not added).

When formatting, a file expected to be v1 based on the configuration, but with
v0 syntax is still formatted as `opa fmt –-v0-v1`. Please see
[Configuring Rego Version](https://docs.styra.com/regal#configuring-rego-version)
for more configuration help for multi version projects.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    opa-fmt:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- OPA Docs: [CLI Reference `opa fmt`](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/cli/#opa-fmt)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/styracommunity/signup)!
