docs/rules/style/pointless-reassignment.md, before:

# pointless-reassignment

**Summary**: Pointless reassignment of variable

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    users := all_users
    any_admin(users)
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    any_admin(all_users)
}
```

## Rationale

Values and variables are immutable in Rego, so reassigning the value of one variable to another only adds noise.

## Exceptions

Reassigning the value of a long reference often helps readability, and especially so when it needs to be referenced
multiple times:

```rego
package policy

allow if {
    users := input.context.permissions.users
    any_admin(users)
}
```

This rule does not consider such assignments violations.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    pointless-reassignment:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/pointless-reassignment/pointless_reassignment.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!

Commit message:

docs: Add note about canonical links
Signed-off-by: Charlie Egan <charlie@styra.com>

docs/rules/style/pointless-reassignment.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please see [rules/style/pointless-reassignment](https://docs.styra.com/regal/rules/style/pointless-reassignment) on the Styra documentation website for the canonical representation of this page.

# pointless-reassignment

**Summary**: Pointless reassignment of variable

**Category**: Style

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    users := all_users
    any_admin(users)
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

allow if {
    any_admin(all_users)
}
```

## Rationale

Values and variables are immutable in Rego, so reassigning the value of one variable to another only adds noise.

## Exceptions

Reassigning the value of a long reference often helps readability, and especially so when it needs to be referenced
multiple times:

```rego
package policy

allow if {
    users := input.context.permissions.users
    any_admin(users)
}
```

This rule does not consider such assignments violations.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  style:
    pointless-reassignment:
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/StyraInc/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/style/pointless-reassignment/pointless_reassignment.rego)

## Community

If you think you've found a problem with this rule or its documentation, would like to suggest improvements, new rules,
or just talk about Regal in general, please join us in the `#regal` channel in the Styra Community
[Slack](https://inviter.co/styra)!
